https://1drv.ms/w/s!Aq3mlZs63G-NhbU0pJBJu7hZPLYWTQ?e=eyRzVO

Columbia BCS Data Analytics 

 

 

Overview of the project: 

 	 

The objective of this project was to analyze and visualize the data associated with various entertainment mediums. The data points themselves were diverse and included times, money invested, ROI, and other metrics. The goal of this project was to be able to format and visualize the data in such a way that a user can look up a particular medium and see how it performed from the standpoint of investments and by country.  

  

Analysis and Challenges: 

 

This exercise was straight forward. It built on my previous knowledge of Excel. The one issue that I encountered was while performing the second deliverable for the challenge project and having to use the COUNTIFS function. This was my initial formula that I input: 

  

It took me a google search and a conversation in the SLACK channel to finally realize what my error was and to correct it to the appropriate formula which was: 

 

From there the remaining parts of the exercise were straightforward and easy to do.  

 

Results: 

One of two conclusions that can be drawn about the Theater Outcomes by Launch Date is that the most successful month for theater productions (110 productions) is the month of May. This is seen below: 

 

 

The second conclusion that can be drawn is that theatre success and failure tend to merge in the month of December. The conversion point for this appears to be between 35 and 37. This can be seen in the following snip: 

 

   

 

One conclusion is that there was one project that failed in the 45000 to 49999 goal range and may be skewing the data in some way. 

 

	These conclusions are limited by the data that was provided. For example, there may have been licensing issues or venue issues that were not considered within the data set that lead to the results. Take for instance; if there is a hurricane that hits the area where the theater is located. The play may be able of being performed but because no one is going to go see a play during a hurricane that affects the production value and return on investment (ROI) that can be generated from that play. One recommendation would be to find supporting data that explains why there is a decline in successful plays past the month of May. Is this due to marketing or factors outside of human control? Then provide quantifiable data that can address the decline in successful plays.  

 